Now that we've seen something about Swift,
let's talk a little bit about Swift UI,
Swift UI first it uses the same icon with
a different color than swift the language.
Unfortunately, I'm not sure if
it's the right name, right,
I remember jQuery and jQuery Mobile that
they were also having the same name.
But they were completely different things,
something similar happens here,
Swift is a language, and
Swift UI is a UI framework.
Yeah, with Swift, but it's a UI framework,
anyway, it's called Swift UI,
and it's said declarative UI framework.
So instead of using an XML or
instead of creating a button
like new button and
setting the properties of the button.
You're gonna use something, for now, let's
say it's similar, but it's not similar,
something similar to HTML, okay, or
JSX in react, okay, like a template.
It doesn't look like that, but it's
the clarity, so the concepts are there,
they're going to declarative
create our user interface.
It was launched a couple of years ago,
it's still kind of new, we can say that
it's a starting right now to feel like,
okay, it's ready to create apps.
I mean, the first year there were
a lot of companies say, hey,
I don't think it's ready, okay, bugs,
some problems or limitations, but
now it's start to feel that it's ready for
primetime.
It has a focus on modern UI patterns,
such as having a single source of truth,
so
the data should live in one place and
only one place, okay?
Reusable views, we're not going
to use a term component here, but
every time we say views,
it's like a component.
In React, Angular or other frameworks,
okay, a view it's something that we
put on the screen, that can have
properties, state, and we can reuse.
Okay, that's the idea, it's multiplatform,
so every view that you create, it's
actually compatible with the watch, with
the iPad, with the iPhone and with a Mac.
And with the Apple TV, of course you
have some specifics on the platform,
but basics of two will work everywhere.
And it has dependency rendering,
which means similar
to how react works or
other declarative UI frameworks.
We are going to define dependencies and
every time one of
those dependencies is changing,
the view will re render.
Okay, so it will automatically
re render based on dependencies,
so I don't need to rely on
my own event binding, so
it's not like on click,
I'm going to change a view.
Now unclick I'm going to change
maybe the state, a dependency,
a variable, and
automatically the view knows, that,
that dependency changes and
it's going to re render the content.
Okay, we're going to see
this in action anyway,
it uses data binding for that, so
we connect the view with the data.
And the view will automatically
sync with the data every time
the data changes and vice versa,
we can have single way binding or
double way binding,
similar to Angular or other frameworks.
And the UI is expressed in Swift
structures, we don't use objects,
we don't use classes, just structures and
this is high performance.
Because the structure is just data,
and we can clone the data,
we can create as much data
if we want just memory.
Really high performance memory,
not objects with their own life cycles,
no, no, just data, and
then when that data is ready,
the framework will render
the abuse on the screen, okay?
So we are going to be
heavily based in structures,
that's the only thing that we will create.
Yeah, then we have the model and
our business logic and
maybe we can use classes on Opie there,
but for swift UI,
everything is a structure, okay?
And we also have a visual editor in Xcode,
that we will see later,
so we can also see how my
view looks like,
while I'm bright in the code,
okay, makes sense,
do we have any question?
>> Seems the industry is going towards
things like reactive programming,
that's their answer or
>> Yeah, if you are a React developer,
you will feel a lot of similarities,
not in how it looks like
because it's not JSX, but
the ideas and
how you think about your app.
And how the app updates itself or
how the components now as views here,
how they are being re rendered,
all the ideas are pretty similar.
Okay, so with different syntax,
but the idea, the patterns,
the architecture patterns are the same/.